CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to `messageformat`

We welcome all relevant issues and pull requests, and aim to provide a constructive environment.
If something is not clear and you have looked at our [documentation site](https://messageformat.github.io/), then it probably counts as a bug of some sort.

Messageformat is an [OpenJS Foundation](https://openjsf.org) project, and we follow its [Code of Conduct](https://code-of-conduct.openjsf.org/).

Our current governance is pretty straightforward; our core contributors [Alex Sexton](https://github.com/SlexAxton) and [Eemeli Aro](https://github.com/eemeli) are in charge. If you'd like to have a say too, active participation is a really good way forward.

## Getting Started

The monorepo uses [npm workspaces](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/using-npm/workspaces) for package management.
Each package is included in the root package.json as a workspace,
and all the dev dependencies are at the root level.
This means that just running `npm install` should get you set up with everything.

## Testing & Linting

We like automated tools.
In addition to Node.js tests, GitHub Actions also lint the code and run the test suite in browser environments provided by [BrowserStack].
To run the browser tests locally, do one of the following:

- Install [ChromeDriver] and run `npm run test:chrome`
- Install [geckodriver] and run `npm run test:firefox`
- Run `npm run test:serve` and then open <http://localhost:3000/test/browser/test.html> in your browser
- Ensure that the `BROWSERSTACK_USER` and `BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY` env vars are set to a valid account and its access key, and run `npm run test:browsers`

Due to relying on Intl.NumberFormat pretty heavily, not all tests will pass in all environments; some will be skipped.

[browserstack]: https://www.browserstack.com/open-source
[chromedriver]: https://chromedriver.chromium.org
[geckodriver]: https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/testing/geckodriver/

## Contributor License Agreement

This repository is managed by EasyCLA. Project participants must sign the free [OpenJS Foundation CLA](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/easycla) before making a contribution. You only need to do this one time, and it can be signed by [individual contributors](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/easycla#sign-as-an-individual) or their [employers](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/easycla#have-your-company-sign-for-you).

To initiate the signature process please open a PR against this repo. The EasyCLA bot will block the merge if we still need a CLA from you.

You can find [detailed instructions here](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/easycla). If you have issues, please email [operations@openjsf.org](mailto:operations@openjsf.org).

If your company benefits from this project and you would like to provide essential financial support for the systems and people that power our community, please also consider [membership in the OpenJS Foundation](https://openjsf.org/about/join).

Commit message:

fix(mf2): Use MessageFormat WG test suite, apply upstream updates (#422)
Adds the unicode-org/message-format-wg repo
as a submodule at test/messageformat-wg,
and uses its upstream test suite.

To reduce the number of files brought in,
using a sparse checkout may be a good idea:

    git submodule update --init
    cd test/messageformat-wg
    git sparse-checkout set test

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to `messageformat`

We welcome all relevant issues and pull requests, and aim to provide a constructive environment.
If something is not clear and you have looked at our [documentation site](https://messageformat.github.io/), then it probably counts as a bug of some sort.

Messageformat is an [OpenJS Foundation](https://openjsf.org) project, and we follow its [Code of Conduct](https://code-of-conduct.openjsf.org/).

Our current governance is pretty straightforward; our core contributors [Alex Sexton](https://github.com/SlexAxton) and [Eemeli Aro](https://github.com/eemeli) are in charge. If you'd like to have a say too, active participation is a really good way forward.

## Getting Started

The monorepo uses [npm workspaces](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/using-npm/workspaces) for package management.
Each package is included in the root package.json as a workspace,
and all the dev dependencies are at the root level.
This means that just running `npm install` should get you set up with everything.

## Testing & Linting

We like automated tools.
In addition to Node.js tests, GitHub Actions also lint the code and run the test suite in browser environments provided by [BrowserStack].
To run the browser tests locally, do one of the following:

- Install [ChromeDriver] and run `npm run test:chrome`
- Install [geckodriver] and run `npm run test:firefox`
- Run `npm run test:serve` and then open <http://localhost:3000/test/browser/test.html> in your browser
- Ensure that the `BROWSERSTACK_USER` and `BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY` env vars are set to a valid account and its access key, and run `npm run test:browsers`

Due to relying on Intl.NumberFormat pretty heavily, not all tests will pass in all environments; some will be skipped.

Some of the MessageFormat 2 tests rely on the conformance test data maintained in the [unicode-org/message-format-wg](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/tree/main/test) repository. That's included here as a git submodule, which is required for the tests to pass:

```
git submodule update --init
```

[browserstack]: https://www.browserstack.com/open-source
[chromedriver]: https://chromedriver.chromium.org
[geckodriver]: https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/testing/geckodriver/

## Contributor License Agreement

This repository is managed by EasyCLA. Project participants must sign the free [OpenJS Foundation CLA](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/easycla) before making a contribution. You only need to do this one time, and it can be signed by [individual contributors](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/easycla#sign-as-an-individual) or their [employers](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/easycla#have-your-company-sign-for-you).

To initiate the signature process please open a PR against this repo. The EasyCLA bot will block the merge if we still need a CLA from you.

You can find [detailed instructions here](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/easycla). If you have issues, please email [operations@openjsf.org](mailto:operations@openjsf.org).

If your company benefits from this project and you would like to provide essential financial support for the systems and people that power our community, please also consider [membership in the OpenJS Foundation](https://openjsf.org/about/join).
