packages/parser/README.md, before:

# messageformat-parser <a href="http://travis-ci.org/messageformat/parser"><img align="right" alt="Build Status" src="https://secure.travis-ci.org/messageformat/parser.png"></a>

A [PEG.js] parser for [ICU MessageFormat] strings – part of [messageformat].
Outputs an AST defined by [parser.pegjs].

The generated `parse(src, [options])` function takes two parameters, first the
string to be parsed, and a second optional parameter `options`, an object with
the following possible keys:

- `cardinal` and `ordinal` – Arrays of valid plural categories for the current
  locale, used to validate `plural` and `selectordinal` keys. If these are
  missing or set to false, the full set of valid [Unicode CLDR] keys is used:
  `'zero', 'one', 'two', 'few', 'many', 'other'`. To disable this check, pass in
  an empty array.

- `strict` – By default, the parsing applies a few relaxations to the ICU
  MessageFormat spec. Setting `strict: true` will disable these relaxations:
  - The `argType` of `simpleArg` formatting functions will be restricted to the
    set of `number`, `date`, `time`, `spellout`, `ordinal`, and `duration`,
    rather than accepting any lower-case identifier that does not start with a
    number.
  - The optional `argStyle` of `simpleArg` formatting functions will not be
    parsed as any other text, but instead as the spec requires: "In
    argStyleText, every single ASCII apostrophe begins and ends quoted literal
    text, and unquoted {curly braces} must occur in matched pairs."
  - Inside a `plural` or `selectordinal` statement, a pound symbol (`#`) is
    replaced with the input number. By default, `#` is also parsed as a special
    character in nested statements too, and can be escaped using apostrophes
    (`'#'`). In strict mode `#` will be parsed as a special character only
    directly inside a `plural` or `selectordinal` statement. Outside those, `#`
    and `'#'` will be parsed as literal text.

The parser only supports the default `DOUBLE_OPTIONAL` [apostrophe mode], in
which a single apostrophe only starts quoted literal text if it immediately
precedes a curly brace `{}`, or a pound symbol `#` if inside a plural format. A
literal apostrophe `'` is represented by either a single `'` or a doubled `''`
apostrophe character.

[icu messageformat]: https://messageformat.github.io/guide/
[messageformat]: https://messageformat.github.io/
[parser.pegjs]: ./parser.pegjs
[peg.js]: http://pegjs.org/
[unicode cldr]: http://cldr.unicode.org/index/cldr-spec/plural-rules
[apostrophe mode]: http://www.icu-project.org/apiref/icu4c/messagepattern_8h.html#af6e0757e0eb81c980b01ee5d68a9978b

## Installation

```sh
npm install messageformat-parser
```

## Usage

```js
> var parse = require('messageformat-parser').parse;

> parse('So {wow}.')
[ 'So ', { type: 'argument', arg: 'wow' }, '.' ]

> parse('Such { thing }. { count, selectordinal, one {First} two {Second}' +
        '                  few {Third} other {#th} } word.')
[ 'Such ',
  { type: 'argument', arg: 'thing' },
  '. ',
  { type: 'selectordinal',
    arg: 'count',
    offset: 0,
    cases:
     [ { key: 'one', tokens: [ 'First' ] },
       { key: 'two', tokens: [ 'Second' ] },
       { key: 'few', tokens: [ 'Third' ] },
       { key: 'other', tokens: [ { type: 'octothorpe' }, 'th' ] } ] },
  ' word.' ]

> parse('Many{type,select,plural{ numbers}selectordinal{ counting}' +
                         'select{ choices}other{ some {type}}}.')
[ 'Many',
  { type: 'select',
    arg: 'type',
    cases:
     [ { key: 'plural', tokens: [ ' numbers' ] },
       { key: 'selectordinal', tokens: [ ' counting' ] },
       { key: 'select', tokens: [ ' choices' ] },
       { key: 'other', tokens: [ ' some',
                                 { type: 'argument', arg: 'type' } ] } ] },
  '.' ]

> parse('{Such compliance')
// SyntaxError: Expected ",", "}" or [ \t\n\r] but "c" found.

> var msg = '{words, plural, zero{No words} one{One word} other{# words}}';
> var englishKeys = { cardinal: [ 'one', 'other' ],
                      ordinal: [ 'one', 'two', 'few', 'other' ] };
> parse(msg)
[ { type: 'plural',
    arg: 'words',
    offset: 0,
    cases:
     [ { key: 'zero', tokens: [ 'No words' ] },
       { key: 'one', tokens: [ 'One word' ] },
       { key: 'other', tokens: [ { type: 'octothorpe' }, ' words' ] } ] } ]

> parse(msg, englishKeys)
// Error: Invalid key `zero` for argument `words`. Valid plural keys for this
//        locale are `one`, `other`, and explicit keys like `=0`.
```

For more example usage, please take a look at our [test suite](./test.js).

## Structure

The output of `parse()` is a `Token` array:

```typescript
type Token = string | Argument | Plural | Select | Function

type Argument = {
  type: 'argument',
  arg: Identifier
}

type Plural = {
  type: 'plural' | 'selectordinal',
  arg: Identifier,
  offset: number,
  cases: PluralCase[]
}

type Select = {
  type: 'select',
  arg: Identifier,
  cases: SelectCase[]
}

type Function = {
  type: 'function',
  arg: Identifier,
  key: Identifier,
  param: {
    tokens: options.strict ? [string] : (Token | Octothorpe)[]
  } | null
}

type PluralCase = {
  key: 'zero' | 'one' | 'two' | 'few' | 'many' | 'other' | '=0' | '=1' | '=2' | ...,
  tokens: (Token | Octothorpe)[]
}

type SelectCase = {
  key: Identifier,
  tokens: options.strict ? Token[] : (Token | Octothorpe)[]
}

type Octothorpe = {
  type: 'octothorpe'
}

type Identifier = string  // not containing whitespace or control characters
```

## License & Contributor License Agreement

Released under the MIT license. See the [messageformat README][cla] for details.

[cla]: https://github.com/messageformat/messageformat.js#contributor-license-agreement

Commit message:

docs: Update READMEs, including OpenJS Foundation footer

packages/parser/README.md, after:

# messageformat-parser

A [PEG.js] parser for [ICU MessageFormat] strings – part of [messageformat].
Outputs an AST defined by [parser.pegjs].

The generated `parse(src, [options])` function takes two parameters, first the
string to be parsed, and a second optional parameter `options`, an object with
the following possible keys:

- `cardinal` and `ordinal` – Arrays of valid plural categories for the current
  locale, used to validate `plural` and `selectordinal` keys. If these are
  missing or set to false, the full set of valid [Unicode CLDR] keys is used:
  `'zero', 'one', 'two', 'few', 'many', 'other'`. To disable this check, pass in
  an empty array.

- `strict` – By default, the parsing applies a few relaxations to the ICU
  MessageFormat spec. Setting `strict: true` will disable these relaxations:
  - The `argType` of `simpleArg` formatting functions will be restricted to the
    set of `number`, `date`, `time`, `spellout`, `ordinal`, and `duration`,
    rather than accepting any lower-case identifier that does not start with a
    number.
  - The optional `argStyle` of `simpleArg` formatting functions will not be
    parsed as any other text, but instead as the spec requires: "In
    argStyleText, every single ASCII apostrophe begins and ends quoted literal
    text, and unquoted {curly braces} must occur in matched pairs."
  - Inside a `plural` or `selectordinal` statement, a pound symbol (`#`) is
    replaced with the input number. By default, `#` is also parsed as a special
    character in nested statements too, and can be escaped using apostrophes
    (`'#'`). In strict mode `#` will be parsed as a special character only
    directly inside a `plural` or `selectordinal` statement. Outside those, `#`
    and `'#'` will be parsed as literal text.

The parser only supports the default `DOUBLE_OPTIONAL` [apostrophe mode], in
which a single apostrophe only starts quoted literal text if it immediately
precedes a curly brace `{}`, or a pound symbol `#` if inside a plural format. A
literal apostrophe `'` is represented by either a single `'` or a doubled `''`
apostrophe character.

[icu messageformat]: https://messageformat.github.io/guide/
[messageformat]: https://messageformat.github.io/
[parser.pegjs]: ./parser.pegjs
[peg.js]: http://pegjs.org/
[unicode cldr]: http://cldr.unicode.org/index/cldr-spec/plural-rules
[apostrophe mode]: http://www.icu-project.org/apiref/icu4c/messagepattern_8h.html#af6e0757e0eb81c980b01ee5d68a9978b

## Installation

```sh
npm install messageformat-parser
```

## Usage

```js
> var parse = require('messageformat-parser').parse;

> parse('So {wow}.')
[ 'So ', { type: 'argument', arg: 'wow' }, '.' ]

> parse('Such { thing }. { count, selectordinal, one {First} two {Second}' +
        '                  few {Third} other {#th} } word.')
[ 'Such ',
  { type: 'argument', arg: 'thing' },
  '. ',
  { type: 'selectordinal',
    arg: 'count',
    offset: 0,
    cases:
     [ { key: 'one', tokens: [ 'First' ] },
       { key: 'two', tokens: [ 'Second' ] },
       { key: 'few', tokens: [ 'Third' ] },
       { key: 'other', tokens: [ { type: 'octothorpe' }, 'th' ] } ] },
  ' word.' ]

> parse('Many{type,select,plural{ numbers}selectordinal{ counting}' +
                         'select{ choices}other{ some {type}}}.')
[ 'Many',
  { type: 'select',
    arg: 'type',
    cases:
     [ { key: 'plural', tokens: [ ' numbers' ] },
       { key: 'selectordinal', tokens: [ ' counting' ] },
       { key: 'select', tokens: [ ' choices' ] },
       { key: 'other', tokens: [ ' some',
                                 { type: 'argument', arg: 'type' } ] } ] },
  '.' ]

> parse('{Such compliance')
// SyntaxError: Expected ",", "}" or [ \t\n\r] but "c" found.

> var msg = '{words, plural, zero{No words} one{One word} other{# words}}';
> var englishKeys = { cardinal: [ 'one', 'other' ],
                      ordinal: [ 'one', 'two', 'few', 'other' ] };
> parse(msg)
[ { type: 'plural',
    arg: 'words',
    offset: 0,
    cases:
     [ { key: 'zero', tokens: [ 'No words' ] },
       { key: 'one', tokens: [ 'One word' ] },
       { key: 'other', tokens: [ { type: 'octothorpe' }, ' words' ] } ] } ]

> parse(msg, englishKeys)
// Error: Invalid key `zero` for argument `words`. Valid plural keys for this
//        locale are `one`, `other`, and explicit keys like `=0`.
```

For more example usage, please take a look at our [test suite](./test.js).

## Structure

The output of `parse()` is a `Token` array:

```typescript
type Token = string | Argument | Plural | Select | Function

type Argument = {
  type: 'argument',
  arg: Identifier
}

type Plural = {
  type: 'plural' | 'selectordinal',
  arg: Identifier,
  offset: number,
  cases: PluralCase[]
}

type Select = {
  type: 'select',
  arg: Identifier,
  cases: SelectCase[]
}

type Function = {
  type: 'function',
  arg: Identifier,
  key: Identifier,
  param: {
    tokens: options.strict ? [string] : (Token | Octothorpe)[]
  } | null
}

type PluralCase = {
  key: 'zero' | 'one' | 'two' | 'few' | 'many' | 'other' | '=0' | '=1' | '=2' | ...,
  tokens: (Token | Octothorpe)[]
}

type SelectCase = {
  key: Identifier,
  tokens: options.strict ? Token[] : (Token | Octothorpe)[]
}

type Octothorpe = {
  type: 'octothorpe'
}

type Identifier = string  // not containing whitespace or control characters
```

---

[Messageformat](https://messageformat.github.io/) is an OpenJS Foundation project, and we follow its [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/cross-project-council/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

<a href="https://openjsf.org">
<img width=200 alt="OpenJS Foundation" src="https://messageformat.github.io/messageformat/logo/openjsf.svg" />
</a>
