mf2/docs/project.md, before:

---
title: Project Overview
---

# Project Overview

Messageformat is an [OpenJS Foundation](https://openjsf.org) project,
and we follow its [Code of Conduct](https://code-of-conduct.openjsf.org/).

The project's current focus is on building JavaScript support for MessageFormat 2.
Versions of `messageformat` and `@messageformat/core` prior to v4
provide JavaScript support for ICU MessageFormat, i.e. "MessageFormat 1".
Documentation for those is found at [messageformat.github.io/mf1](https://messageformat.github.io/mf1).

Our current governance is pretty straightforward;
our core contributor [Eemeli Aro](https://github.com/eemeli) is in charge.
If you'd like to have a say too, active participation is a really good way forward.

## License

You may use this software under the MIT License:

> Copyright OpenJS Foundation and contributors, <https://openjsf.org/>
>
> Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
> a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
> "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
> without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
> distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
> permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
> the following conditions:
>
> The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
> included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
>
> THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
> EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
> MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
> NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
> LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
> OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
> WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

## Core Contributors

- Eemeli Aro - [@eemeli@mefi.social ](https://mefi.social/@eemeli) - [github.com/eemeli](https://github.com/eemeli)

## Former Contributors

- Alex Sexton - [@SlexAxton](http://twitter.com/SlexAxton) - [alexsexton.com](http://alexsexton.com/)

Commit message:

docs: Update, specifying "Unicode MessageFormat" vs. "ICU MessageFormat"

mf2/docs/project.md, after:

---
title: Project Overview
---

# Project Overview

Messageformat is an [OpenJS Foundation](https://openjsf.org) project,
and we follow its [Code of Conduct](https://code-of-conduct.openjsf.org/).

The project's current focus is on building JavaScript support for
Unicode MessageFormat, aka "MessageFormat 2" or "MF2".
Versions of `messageformat` and `@messageformat/core` prior to v4
provide JavaScript support for ICU MessageFormat, i.e. "MessageFormat 1".
Documentation for those is found at [messageformat.github.io/mf1](https://messageformat.github.io/mf1).

Our **long-term goal** is to make significant parts of this project obsolete
by working with the [Unicode MessageFormat Working Group](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg)
and [TC39](https://tc39.es/) to bring Unicode MessageFormat support to JavaScript
as [Intl.MessageFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-messageformat).

`messageformat` v4 is available under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).
Earlier versions are available under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/license/mit).

Our current governance is pretty straightforward;
our core contributor [Eemeli Aro](https://github.com/eemeli) is in charge.
If you'd like to have a say too, active participation is a really good way forward.

## Core Contributors

- Eemeli Aro - [@eemeli@mefi.social ](https://mefi.social/@eemeli) - [github.com/eemeli](https://github.com/eemeli)

## Former Contributors

- Alex Sexton - [@SlexAxton](http://twitter.com/SlexAxton) - [alexsexton.com](http://alexsexton.com/)
